README.md, before:

# Magento Test Environment Helm Chart

This Helm chart deploys a Magento test environment consisting of several services running on Kubernetes.

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes cluster up and running
- Helm 3 or later installed
- Docker registry set up to push and pull container images (optional)

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

```shell
git clone <repository-url>
```

2. Build the PHP Docker Image
```shell
cd magento-test-env/charts/php/templates
./build-php-image.sh
```

This step is optional if you already have a pre-built PHP image available in your registry.

3. Push the PHP Docker image to your Docker registry (optional):
docker push your-docker-repo/your-php-image:tag

Skip this step if you're using a pre-built PHP image or planning to build it directly within the cluster.

4. Install the Helm chart:

```shell
helm install magento-test-env ./magento-test-env
```
This will deploy the Magento test environment with default configurations. You can modify the values in values.yaml as needed.

### Configuration
The following table lists the configurable parameters of the Helm chart:

| Parameter                    | Description                               | Default                              |
|------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| `image.repository`           | PHP image repository                       | `your-docker-repo`                   |
| `image.tag`                  | PHP image tag                              | `tag`                                |
| `varnish.enabled`            | Enable Varnish deployment                  | `true`                               |
| `varnish.replicaCount`       | Number of Varnish replicas                 | `1`                                  |
| `varnish.image.repository`   | Varnish image repository                   | `your-varnish-repo`                  |
| `varnish.image.tag`          | Varnish image tag                          | `varnish-tag`                        |
| `mysql.enabled`              | Enable MySQL deployment                     | `true`                               |
| `mysql.replicaCount`         | Number of MySQL replicas                    | `1`                                  |
| `mysql.image.repository`     | MySQL image repository                     | `mysql`                              |
| `mysql.image.tag`            | MySQL image tag                            | `latest`                             |
| `mysql.rootPassword`         | Root password for MySQL                     | `password`                           |
| `elasticsearch.enabled`      | Enable Elasticsearch deployment            | `true`                               |
| `elasticsearch.replicaCount` | Number of Elasticsearch replicas           | `1`                                  |
| `elasticsearch.image.repository` | Elasticsearch image repository           | `elasticsearch`                      |
| `elasticsearch.image.tag`    | Elasticsearch image tag                    | `7.10.1`                             |
| `registry.enabled`           | Enable Docker Registry deployment          | `true`                               |
| `registry.replicaCount`      | Number of Docker Registry replicas         | `1`                                  |
| `registry.image.repository`  | Docker Registry image repository           | `registry`                           |
| `registry.image.tag`         | Docker Registry image tag                  | `2`                                  |
| ...                          | ...                                       | ...                                  |

You can modify these parameters in the values.yaml file or override them during the Helm installation.

### Cleanup
To remove the Magento test environment deployment, run the following command:

```shell
helm uninstall magento-test-env
```

### Customization
This Helm chart provides a starting point for deploying a Magento test environment. You can customize the chart according to your specific requirements by modifying the template files and values.

For more details on how to customize Helm charts, refer to the [Helm documentation](https://helm.sh/docs/).

### License
This Helm chart is released under the [MIT License](https://chat.openai.com/c/LICENSE).

Commit message:

add chat gpt generated description for each service

README.md, after:

# Magento Test Environment Helm Chart

This Helm chart deploys a Magento test environment consisting of several services running on Kubernetes.

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes cluster up and running
- Helm 3 or later installed
- Docker registry set up to push and pull container images (optional)

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

```shell
git clone <repository-url>
```

2. Build the PHP Docker Image
```shell
cd magento-test-env/charts/php/templates
./build-php-image.sh
```

This step is optional if you already have a pre-built PHP image available in your registry.

3. Push the PHP Docker image to your Docker registry (optional):
docker push your-docker-repo/your-php-image:tag

Skip this step if you're using a pre-built PHP image or planning to build it directly within the cluster.

4. Install the Helm chart:

```shell
helm install magento-test-env ./magento-test-env
```
This will deploy the Magento test environment with default configurations. You can modify the values in values.yaml as needed.

### Configuration
The following table lists the configurable parameters of the Helm chart:

| Parameter                    | Description                               | Default                              |
|------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| `image.repository`           | PHP image repository                       | `your-docker-repo`                   |
| `image.tag`                  | PHP image tag                              | `tag`                                |
| `varnish.enabled`            | Enable Varnish deployment                  | `true`                               |
| `varnish.replicaCount`       | Number of Varnish replicas                 | `1`                                  |
| `varnish.image.repository`   | Varnish image repository                   | `your-varnish-repo`                  |
| `varnish.image.tag`          | Varnish image tag                          | `varnish-tag`                        |
| `mysql.enabled`              | Enable MySQL deployment                     | `true`                               |
| `mysql.replicaCount`         | Number of MySQL replicas                    | `1`                                  |
| `mysql.image.repository`     | MySQL image repository                     | `mysql`                              |
| `mysql.image.tag`            | MySQL image tag                            | `latest`                             |
| `mysql.rootPassword`         | Root password for MySQL                     | `password`                           |
| `elasticsearch.enabled`      | Enable Elasticsearch deployment            | `true`                               |
| `elasticsearch.replicaCount` | Number of Elasticsearch replicas           | `1`                                  |
| `elasticsearch.image.repository` | Elasticsearch image repository           | `elasticsearch`                      |
| `elasticsearch.image.tag`    | Elasticsearch image tag                    | `7.10.1`                             |
| `registry.enabled`           | Enable Docker Registry deployment          | `true`                               |
| `registry.replicaCount`      | Number of Docker Registry replicas         | `1`                                  |
| `registry.image.repository`  | Docker Registry image repository           | `registry`                           |
| `registry.image.tag`         | Docker Registry image tag                  | `2`                                  |
| ...                          | ...                                       | ...                                  |

You can modify these parameters in the values.yaml file or override them during the Helm installation.

### Cleanup
To remove the Magento test environment deployment, run the following command:

```shell
helm uninstall magento-test-env
```

### Customization
This Helm chart provides a starting point for deploying a Magento test environment. You can customize the chart according to your specific requirements by modifying the template files and values.

For more details on how to customize Helm charts, refer to the [Helm documentation](https://helm.sh/docs/).

### Services

1. **PHP**: The PHP service runs Magento 2, which is a popular e-commerce platform. It hosts the core application code and handles the dynamic content generation for the storefront and admin panel.

2. **Varnish**: Varnish acts as a reverse proxy and caching server, standing in front of Magento 2. It accepts HTTP requests on the standard port and caches the responses from Magento. This helps improve performance by serving cached content directly to clients, reducing the load on the PHP service.

3. **MySQL**: MySQL serves as the main database for Magento 2. It stores and manages the application's data, including product information, customer details, orders, and other essential data. Magento 2 relies on MySQL for data persistence and retrieval.

4. **Elasticsearch**: Elasticsearch is used by Magento 2 as a search engine. It provides fast and efficient search capabilities for the storefront, allowing customers to find products quickly. Elasticsearch enables features like autocomplete, faceted search, and relevancy-based ranking for search results.

5. **Redis (Object Cache)**: Redis is used as an object cache by the Magento 2 PHP service. It helps improve performance by caching frequently accessed data and reducing the need to make expensive database queries. The object cache stores various types of data, such as configuration settings, product information, and blocks of rendered content.

6. **Redis (Session Cache)**: Redis is also used as a session cache by the Magento 2 PHP service. It stores and manages user session data, such as shopping cart contents, logged-in user information, and session-related variables. Redis helps improve scalability and session management for the Magento 2 application.

7. **Docker Registry**: The Docker Registry service provides a centralized location to store and distribute container images. It allows you to push and pull the PHP Docker image used by the Magento 2 service, making it available for deployment across your Kubernetes cluster.

These services work together to create a Magento 2 test environment. The PHP service hosts the application, Varnish acts as a caching layer, MySQL handles the database, Elasticsearch powers the search functionality, and Redis is used for object and session caching. The Docker Registry ensures easy access to the PHP Docker image for deployment.

### License
This Helm chart is released under the [MIT License](https://chat.openai.com/c/LICENSE).
